Course Conclusion

Congratulations! You’ve successfully completed the Generative AI Applications with RAG and LangChain course, where you’ve applied your knowledge to real-world scenarios, refining your skills in using document loaders, text-splitting strategies, vector databases, and retrievers within LangChain. You’ve built a QA bot, integrated a simple Gradio interface, and explored the nuances of retrieval-augmented generation (RAG).

At this point, you know that:

    LangChain uses document loaders, which are connectors that gather data and convert it into a compatible format.

    TextLoader class is used to load plain text files.

    PyPDFLoader class or PyMuPDF Loader is used for PDF files.

    UnstructuredMarkdownLoader is used for Markdown files.

    Use the JSONLoader class to load JSON files.

    CSV Loader is used for CSV files.

    Beautiful Soup or WebBaseLoader is used to load and parse an online webpage.

    WebBaseLoader is used to load multiple websites.

    UnstructuredFileLoader is used for unknown or varied file formats.

    LangChain uses text splitters to split a long document into smaller chunks.

    Text splitters operate along two axes: The method used to break the text and how the chunk is measured.

    Key parameters of a text splitter: Separator, chunk size, chunk overlap, and length function.

    Commonly used splitters: Split by Character, Recursively Split by Character, Split Code, and Markdown Header Text Splitter.

    Embeddings from data sources can be stored using a vector store.

    A vector database retrieves information based on queries using similarity search.

    Chroma DB is a vector store supported by LangChain that saves embeddings along with metadata.

    To construct the Chroma DB vector database, import the Chroma class from LangChain vector stores and call the chunks and embedding model.

    A similarity search process starts with a query, which the embedding model converts into a numerical vector format.

    The vector database compares the query vector to all the vectors in its storage to find the ones most similar to the query.

    A LangChain retriever is an interface that returns documents based on an unstructured query.

    Vector store-based retriever retrieves documents from a vector database using similarity search or MMR.

    Similarity search is when the retriever accepts a query and retrieves the most similar data.

    MMR is a technique used to balance the relevance and diversity of retrieved results.

    Gradio is an open-source Python library for creating customizable web-based user interfaces.

    To set it up:

        Write the Python code

        Create the Gradio interface

        Launch the Gradio server using the launch method

        Access the web interface through a local or public URL provided by Gradio

    To code a simple text input and output with the Gradio interface, use the gr.Interface function.

    To upload or drop files with Gradio, use gr.File command.

    The Multi-Query Retriever uses an LLM to create different versions of the query to generate richer documents.

    The Self-Query Retriever converts the query into a string and a metadata filter.

    The Parent Document Retriever has a parent splitter to split text into large chunks and a child splitter for small chunks. 