Welcome to LoRA with PyTorch and HuggingFace. After watching this video, you'll be able to describe how LoRA works with PyTorch and HuggingFace in large language models or LLMs. You'll also be able to explain various elements that help LoRA work with PyTorch and HuggingFace. LoRA is a lightweight training technique that significantly reduces the number of trainable parameters. LoRA inserts new small weights into the model to train them, making the training process faster and memory efficient. It also produces smaller model weights for easy storage and sharing. The Internet Movie Database or IMDb dataset contains movie reviews from the IMDb. These reviews are generally useful for binary sentiment classification. You can view the class defined to traverse the IMDb dataset. Next, let's use the IMDb dataset class to create iterators for training and testing datasets. This iterator converts the dataset to map style and performs a random split for training and validating them. At this stage you can specify the device. Now, the collate_batch function customizes batches to create them from the individual samples. Convert the dataset objects to data loaders by applying the collate function with the batch size 64. Further, define a class to represent a simple text classifier, say text classifier. It uses an embedding layer such as a hidden linear layer with rectified linear unit or ReLU activation and an output linear layer. Now, modify the hidden highlighted layer to convert it to a LoRA model. Let's look at the LoRA layer class. The LoRA layer class implements a LoRA module beginning with two low rank matrices such as A and B. It further scales its product by a factor of alpha. The forward method performs matrix multiplication A×BX and updates the low rank matrix by adding it to the original output. During the training model you can update only A and B. However, the linear with LoRA class copies the original linear model and creates a LoRA layer object. In the forward method, linear with LoRA class applies the original linear model and the LoRA model for the input x and adds the output together. Now, let's load a pre-trained model on the AG News dataset. This model has four classes and a thorough language understanding because of its large sample size. To initiate with this model, set num_classes to 4. The pre-trained AG News model is trained with an unfrozen embedding layer. Therefore, the model has initiated with freeze = False. The IMDb data set consists of two classes. You can replace the final layer with a new linear layer where the number of outputs equals 2. Next, replace the hidden layer with the LoRA layer, ensuring that A and B are updated during training. Now, let's fine-tune the model defining train model function. First, set up the training components for the model and define the learning rate = 1. Now, use a cross-entropy loss criterion, optimize the stochastic gradient descent or SGD, and use the learning rate scheduler to decay a factor of 0.1 at each epoch to train the model. Next, evaluate the model's performance by plotting a graph loss and accuracy for each epoch and monitor the improvements in the model's performance. You've evaluated the model's performance, defined the evaluation function, and received a model accuracy of 69% on the test data. Now, from model_LoRA.fc1, LoRA obtain the learnable parameters A, B, and alpha and save them to load the model in the future. A and B have approximately 450 parameters. Storing the entire linear layer would go up to 12,800 parameters, approximately 28 times more than the original. The primary advantage of LoRA is that it can fine-tune the model using parameters A, B, and alpha. It also uses the output layers to classify examples. Next, let's load the model using saved parameters. You can create the model object and pre-train the parameters to load them. Further, the predicted function is defined using the model to illustrate the model's performance. Let's look at LoRA with HuggingFace, which makes training the model easy. LoRA with HuggingFace first loads the IMDb dataset to train the model. Here's an example of it. Now, load the DistilBERT tokenizer and apply this tokenizer to create the input IDs and attention mask for the given text. The screen displays the text after tokenization. Further, load a bidirectional representation for transformers or a BERT-like model from the HuggingFace transformer library with two classes as the fine-tuning example. Next, define the task type to classify the reviews using the sequence classification type from the task type module. Further, define the configuration for LoRA and load the pre-trained classification model to define the configuration. Set rank and LoRA scaling factor, including dropout for the larger models. The parameter target_modules specifies the parts of the model that you want to update. The LoRA with HuggingFace enhances the transformer parameters using parameter target modules. Then apply LoRA to the given model using the specified configuration and initialize via the parameter-efficient fine-tuning or PEFT model. Next, let's understand how to set the training arguments in the model. To do so, use TrainingArguments, a class for encapsulating all the hyperparameters and configurations required for training the model. This makes the training process simple and helps to manage various aspects of the training process. Now, let's train the model using a trainer. The trainer class helps simplify the training and evaluation of transformer models. It also handles the training loop and saves the model. It means that you can train the model using the trainer. Finally, plot a graph loss versus accuracy to validate the improvements in the model's performance. Let's recap, in this video, you learned how LoRA works with PyTorch and HuggingFace. In LoRA with PyTorch, the model uses the IMDb data set and the class to create iterators for training and testing datasets. The collate_fn function collates and customizes batches from various samples. The TextClassifier uses embedding layers to classify texts. The LoRALayer class implements the LoRA module and pre-trains it. The model is fine-tuned using the train_model function, evaluates the model's performance, and provides the model's performance accuracy. Using the IMDb dataset, LoRA with HuggingFace simplifies the model training process. The model uses the tokenizer to create input IDs and BERT-like models from the HuggingFace transformer library. Define the task type using SequenceClassification type and define the configuration for LoRA. TrainingArguments help train the arguments in the model, and trainers help the model to train the Trainer class.